1007\. Maximum Subsequence Sum (25)

Given a sequence of K integers { N1, N2, ..., NK }. A continuous subsequence is defined to be { Ni, Ni+1, ..., Nj } where 1 <= i <= j <= K. The Maximum Subsequence is the continuous subsequence which has the largest sum of its elements. For example, given sequence { -2, 11, -4, 13, -5, -2 }, its maximum subsequence is { 11, -4, 13 } with the largest sum being 20.

Now you are supposed to find the largest sum, together with the first and the last numbers of the maximum subsequence.

**Input Specification:**

Each input file contains one test case. Each case occupies two lines. The first line contains a positive integer K (<= 10000). The second line contains K numbers, separated by a space.

**Output Specification:**

For each test case, output in one line the largest sum, together with the first and the last numbers of the maximum subsequence. The numbers must be separated by one space, but there must be no extra space at the end of a line. In case that the maximum subsequence is not unique, output the one with the smallest indices i and j (as shown by the sample case). If all the K numbers are negative, then its maximum sum is defined to be 0, and you are supposed to output the first and the last numbers of the whole sequence.

**Sample Input:**

10

-10 1 2 3 4 -5 -23 3 7 -21

**Sample Output:**

10 1 4

**解析**

需要注意的是，题目要求，*若出现总和相同的情况，输出最小索引的i，j对应的值*，所以，除了要判断 *CurrentSum > MaxSum*外，还得判断，*CurrentSum == 0 && lastIdx == vec_size - 1*。

###解法一

其实此题是经典的动态规划问题，《算法导论》上就有讲过这个算法。但是我还是试着用遍历的算法去实现一次，由于题目限制了K <= 1000,所以并没有超时。

```
void MSS(vector<int> &vec){ //时间复杂度太大
    int MaxSum = 0;
    int CurrentSum = 0;
    
    int vec_size = vec.size();
    int firstIdx = 0, lastIdx = vec_size - 1;
    
    for(int i = 0; i < vec_size; ++i){
        CurrentSum = 0;
        for(int j = i; j < vec_size; ++j){
            CurrentSum += vec[j];            
            if (CurrentSum > MaxSum || (CurrentSum == 0 && lastIdx == vec_size - 1)){
                MaxSum = CurrentSum;
                firstIdx = i;
                lastIdx = j;
            }
        }
    }
    cout << MaxSum << " " << vec[firstIdx] << " " << vec[lastIdx] << endl;
}

```

###解法二

此解法只需一次for循环，时间复杂度为O(N).
```
void MSS2(vector<int> &vec){ //accepted
    int MaxSum = 0;
    int CurrentSum = 0;
    
    int vec_size = vec.size();
    int firstIdx = 0, lastIdx = vec_size - 1;
    
    int tmpfirst = 0, tmplast = 0;
    for(int i = 0; i < vec_size; ++i){
        if(CurrentSum >= 0){
            CurrentSum += vec[i];
            tmplast = i;
        }
        //如果CurrentSum<0,则 CurrentSum + vec[i] < vec[i]. 此时应当重新开始求和，以使得Sum最大。
        else{   
            CurrentSum = vec[i];
            tmpfirst = i;
            tmplast = i;
        }
        
        if(CurrentSum > MaxSum || (CurrentSum == 0 && lastIdx == vec_size -1)){
            MaxSum = CurrentSum;
            lastIdx = tmplast;
            firstIdx = tmpfirst;
        }
    }
    cout << MaxSum << " " << vec[firstIdx] << " " << vec[lastIdx] << endl;
}
```

